{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\uc1 \deff4\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\upr{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman{\*\falt MS ??};}{\f4\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020005000000000000}Times;}}{\*\ud{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman{\*\falt MS ??};}{\f4\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020005000000000000}Times;}}}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\lang3081\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\title HELLO}{\author Amber Carvan}{\operator Amber Carvan}{\creatim\yr2001\mo7\dy11\hr18\min10}{\revtim\yr2001\mo7\dy11\hr18\min21}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords927}{\nofchars5287}{\*\company noise}{\nofcharsws6492}{\vern8243}}\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow0\jexpand\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\headery708\footery708\colsx708\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f4\lang3081\cgrid {HELLO?\par \par You don't know me. I don't know you. I have sat next to you or passed by you in the street a thousand times. But we've never exchanged a word. \par \par Do you wonder who I am?\par You'd like me if you knew me.\par \par Do you want to know my name?\par I'd like to know yours.\par \par Would you like to know my story?\par Where do you want me to begin?\par \par Would you like to befriend me?\par We could be such great friends.\par \par Or am I invisible to you?\par You looked straight through me today.\par \par \par I casually glance around the train platform; the faces are familiar. There is the waif with angry blue streaks in her hair who always has a cigarette between her fingers (she takes a long, thoughtful puff). There is the elderly woman who shuffles along, hunched over. She is wearing new orthopaedic shoes and clutches a plastic bag as though it contained all her worldly possessions. There is the balding man wearing thick-lens glasses, reading a Chinese newspaper with a serious expression on his face. He looks up for a second, aware of my presence. I quickly glance away.\par \par I usually sit in the top level of the third carriage. I take out the second-hand paperback that I have been reading for a month. But today I can't concentrate. Gradually the train fills with people. After the fourth stop someone eases into the seat, next to me and interrupts me from my musings. I re-position myself closer to the window. I often don't see who it is until I get up. But sometimes I take a surreptitious glance.\par \par I see rows and rows of well-kept homes alongside run-down flats and weather-beaten fibro houses. There aren't many people about. Not many people are home, probably. I don't know any of them anyway.\par Hundreds of cars crawl along a section of the highway. The cars are banked up because of a crash. People don't think about the driver who has a nasty gash across his forehead. They tap impatiently on the steering wheel and curse whatever or whoever is causing them to be even later for work, when they are already running 10 minutes behind schedule. It's not that they are heartless. They just have important things to attend to.\par \par Don't you know that it's every man, woman and child for themself?\par Are we all so desensitised?\par \par You obey the rules while sitting in your little cocoon like everyone else. Occasionally you wave your hand to someone who has been considerate enough to let you in. But you don't see most of the people. You see silhouettes inside hulking metal objects on wheels. You form impressions by the make, brand and condition of the car. You infer that the driver is old, young, Asian or female because their driving is atrocious. You rudely overtake the young P-plater who is driving just under the speed limit. \par \par Do you think of congratulating him for trying to not become a statistic?\par I will, now that you put it that way\u8230\'c9\par \par You turn on the radio and listen to jaded comedians making fun of women who don't know how to use a lathe and men who don't know what a French manicure is. You listen to comments like, "For God's sake, how is a kid with gay parents supposed to grow up normal?" You catch snippets of the news via headlines. The latest broken promise. The latest company collapse. The latest celebrity split (surely that can't be right). You are bombarded with ads. You listen to lawyers, lenders and accountants hawk their wares. You listen to cheesy fast food ads (no need to name names).\par Is anyone really talking to you?\par Well, I'm being talked at.\par \par Whatever your destination is this Monday morning, you'll interact with the electronic interface of the modern world. Push buttons, swipe cards, train tickets, voice-activated operators, metal detectors, voice mail, e-mail and automatic teller machines. Tomorrow there will be self-serve supermarket checkouts. Efficiency is the catch-cry of the 21st century. \par \par Am I the only one who has this experience of the world? \par That's me over there, standing in the corner, looking bewildered. \par \par Does this sound familiar? \par Is this how your life is too?\par \par Do you recognise the motif I am describing to you? \par Yes, anonymity. \par The state of being anonymous.\par \par I feel so insignificant at times. \par \par Is it because I'm young and naive?\par No.\par \par This isn't a problem of youth. Everyone is a victim. But my unworldliness is contributing to my maladjustment. I need to realise and accept. I need to learn that this is how things are. But every fibre of my body - my entire being - desperately wants to connect with other people. I want to feel connected to others. I might be walking pass one of my ilk right now. \par \par Why can't I just say hello to the person sitting next to me? \par Because they would think I'm strange. \par \par If I talk, I break the unwritten code that is there to protect us. At least I can still smile. Thankfully, it's okay to exchange a friendly smile with a stranger (who is after all, simply a friend you haven't met). \par Hi, it's wonderful to be alive, isn't it? \par \par When I was younger, my world was small and confined. I saw the same people every day. I didn't yearn for variety. It was familiar, comfortable and close-knit. I had school, friends and family. Loneliness was fleeting. I never felt anonymous. It never occurred to me that that was how things were outside the gated walls. I didn't know that one day a tax file number, a PIN, a student number and a magnetic stripe would identify me in the world at large. \par Welcome to the real world, honey. \par Honey? You mean five-five-two-three?\par \par There aren't many bars where everyone knows my name. This is how it is. I know this; you know this. Anonymity is your armour and your burden. If you don't like it, move to a village or a country town. Out of the big city. \par \par If I know all this, then why do I still have a problem in accepting it? \par I want to change the situation but I'm not sure how. Will you help me?\par \par Anonymity is at the core of loneliness and isolation. Withdrawn children who feel on the outer in big unfriendly schools. Isolated sociopaths. Masses of homeless men and women with whom you are afraid to make eye contact with - afraid to be involved with. \par I'm sorry, I don't have any change.\par I don't want to know you exist. \par \par Overwhelming powerlessness. A numbing and deadening of the senses. Switch off from the outside world but retain your identity. You don't know me. I don't know you. And you think that you don't need to know me. \par Or do you?\par Break the silence. \par \par Next time you see me, look me in the eye and say hello. \par }}