{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\upr{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman;}{\f4\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020005000000000000}Times;}{\f12\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020205020603050602}New York;}}{\*\ud{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman;}{\f4\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020005000000000000}Times;}{\f12\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020205020603050602}New York;}}}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f12\lang1033\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\title startingfromscratch}{\author AppleCentre Melbourne CBD}{\operator Amber Carvan}{\creatim\yr2001\mo10\dy9\hr14\min22}{\revtim\yr2001\mo10\dy9\hr14\min22}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords1412}{\nofchars8052}{\*\company MUSU}{\nofcharsws9888}{\vern8243}}\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1080\margr1080 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\ftnrstpg\hyphhotz0\sprstsp\otblrul\brkfrm\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\sprstsm\truncex\nolead\nospaceforul\msmcap\lytprtmet\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace0\dgvspace0\dghorigin0\dgvorigin0\dghshow0\dgvshow0\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale125\bdrrlswsix\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 \f12\lang1033\cgrid {\b\f4\fs20 Starting from Scratch\par }\pard \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 {\b\f4\fs20 Michael Doyle}{\f4\fs20 \par \par It's an ordinary brick suburban house in a quiet street. The driveway contains a '69 Holden sedan and a '66 Valiant that looks like it has retired from a job as the Ghostbuster mobile. The garage door is open and coughs out loud bursts of guitar and drum. There's a ragged old rocking chair enjoying the afternoon sun and at the back of the garage, under the light of a lamp, Tim Kill is bent over his workbench.\par \par He only lifts his head once I'm inside the converted garage. Dressed in an old pair of shorts he reaches under the towel, covering the stereo, to turn down the music. 'It's Ten Penny Joke,' he tells me when I ask who he's listening to. I've never heard of them.\par \par }\pard \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 {\f4\fs20 There's an assortment of CD's scattered on a bench. Live and Days of the New are topmost on the pile. He turns to a guitar clamped under the lamplight and shaves a few more strips of paint from the instrument. There are four tattoos on his back, a bass clef on his ankle. 'I'm stripping an old jazz bass,' he says, glancing sideways briefly. He \par }\pard \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 {\f4\fs20 scrutinises his work, leans on the bench and smiles.\par \par Tim Kill is a magician. He turns wood into polished string instruments. He goes about his work with minimal fuss. As long as he's got music playing and some wood to work on, you get the impression he'll be satisfied. You can see pride in his admiration for his work. \par \par In order to create the optimum sound, he examines every curve, every grain of wood, with the skill of an experienced craftsman. But Tim has only been doing this for three years, after borrowing a book about guitar-making. Already he's fast establishing a name within the music industry.  \par \par }\pard \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 {\f4\fs20 The shed is chockablock with wood. 'Most of it is stored for drying. It's seasoned timber and it has to dry naturally,' Tim explains. He walks to the left of a large pile of twisted wood, cradling a piece in his arms like it was an infant. 'This was from an old tree in my parent's back garden. It's just one big knot. I can't wait to get into that.'\par }\pard \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 {\f4\fs20 \par From hooks and nails the bodies of Tim's favourite instruments hang like a guitar graveyard. I comment on a charred silhouette. 'I scammed some stuff from a friend.' He smoothes his hand over the instrument. 'I set it on fire and ran around the back yard like Jimi Hendrix,' he explains, laughing like a mad professor.\par \par A box of bamboo sits next to the workshop entrance and under the work-bench is a clutter of banjo mandolins. Above is a carved mask, shavings of wood left dangling to form a beard. Tim takes it off the wall and turns it in his hands. 'It's made out of a bamboo root. It's pretty cool. I like carving masks and stuff and not even selling them. \par I just give them to friends.' \par }\pard \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 {\f4\fs20 \par }\pard \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 {\f4\fs20 Tim replaces the grinning mask on its perch above the bench. He lifts a smooth, red rectangle of wood from the end of the bench and presents it to me with a broad smile. 'I've sold two so far. And I've only made three.' Stick basses are the practical replacement for the double bass. They look like long, slim violins. He has to think for a while to remember who he has sold them to. One of them is Joe Crighton, \par bass-player for performers like John Farnham and Kylie Minogue. The other one went to 'a bloke from a Jewish band. I forget the name now,' Tim says.\par \par 'Selling my first was a buzz; there's not much of a market,' he tells me. So why is there a market now? 'Double basses are impractical and awkward. And they're easily damaged. A standard double bass can cost a couple of grand to fix. The stick bass feels and sounds like a double but is easily fixed as well as transportable.' \par \par }\pard \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 {\f4\fs20 Tim replaces the red wood with another, of paler colour\emdash an elongated guitar, almost. It looks like a model of a unique house without a roof. As he talks, he traces a path through the interior with his fingers. 'Lots of double basses have feedback problems, they're such a large acoustic instrument. I try to get acoustic chambers inside the body\emdash they're routed throughout. I maintain the double bass sound, semi-hollow, semi-acoustic. I'm not trying to reinvent the wheel or anything. I'm just trying to modify the instrument and make it practical, but maintain the traditional feel and sound.' \par }\pard \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 {\f4\fs20 \par He usually hunts around for timber, having experimented with cherry wood, papuke and zebrano. 'I get most of it from wood yards, imported stuff from overseas, European timbers. I use Victorian ash, red gum and jarrah to compare sounds. I've made some from U.S. maple to find tone variations between the timbers.'\par }\pard \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 {\f4\fs20 \par }\pard \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 {\f4\fs20 Already Tim's skill has been recognised by people from a range of musical backgrounds. The bass player for the Resin Dogs has expressed his interest, and members of the state orchestra loved it. Even the bass player from Rolf Harris' band has inquired about Tim's stick bass. His instruments have found a particular market in the rock-a-billy music scene. Classical instruments are coming full circle, with bands like the Living End, the Stray Cats, and Fireball popularising rock-a-billy. 'The Living End had a play on one of my basses,' Tim concurs. 'If I'd had the funds, I'd have given him one to endorse.' \par \par  'It's hard starting from scratch,' he thinks. 'Each stick bass costs about a grand to make plus a few weeks labour. It's difficult because I don't have the money to pay for it all at once. I do it in stages. The fingerboards alone cost me around $180.'\par \par }\pard \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 {\f4\fs20 Good quality tools are also an obstacle\emdash they cost a fortune and are difficult to come by. 'I got most of mine from Sunday markets, or as presents. I want to make a bandsaw. I hassle the shit out of my grandpa. He was a furniture restorer. I used to fool around with tools and annoy him. His tools\emdash a circular saw, a few hand saws\emdash are all handmade. They're cool. They have more character than electric tools which are expensive to buy and fix.'\par }\pard \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 {\f4\fs20 \par Tim suddenly becomes animated, eager to explore the wooden treasures of his garage. He moves over to a wooden box and pulls out a tool, handling it like a new toy. 'The router is a hell tool to use. If you can tame the router, you can do intricate patterns. But two thousand revs-per-minute can ruin four month's work in one second. I've had a couple of guitars routed out. You can become so fatigued by the end of it.' He smiles down at the tool, nodding. 'Ace fun.' The router replaced, he resumes his position, leaning on the bench. Absorbed in his thoughts, Tim's speech, now directed out into the street, has become more of a monologue. \par \par }\pard \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 {\f4\fs20 'I never in the world thought I'd be doing this. I'm not much of a wood worker. I love what I'm doing. I don't really care about the money. The best feeling is bringing it to life\emdash something from nothing. I hate to see a guitar go. I like to plug it in and bash it and then take it to a friend's and let them do the same. I'm a bass player myself. I was always playing so I bought a book on how to make an electric guitar. It was fun and I got a good rap from friends and people in the business who responded to my questions. So I made a few for friends.'\par }\pard \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 {\f4\fs20 \par Snapping out of his trance, he turns his attention back to me, standing in the garage. The music's still playing. Shaking his head, he says, 'I've gotta get organised with a website. I don't have a clue about computers. I guess I need to promote myself. I'd like to branch out and get a handful done by the end of the year, then go overseas to America, leave a couple in London. Being young means I can branch out. I've gone from being a floor and wall tiler to doing this. I started making guitars when I was 19 and I've only just turned 22.' He flashes a Cheshire cat grin, then says, 'I'm still learning. Always will be.' \par \par }\pard \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 {\f4\fs20 'I'm still trying to organise a brand. I've made a symbol up myself. The work is so time consuming. I now have repairs to do on custom and friend's guitars. I love painting and drawing. I'd like to do more of that. My mind is just ticking over. I'm looking into grants as well. Story of my life\emdash four steps forward, 3000 back. There aren't enough days in the week.'\par }\pard \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 {\f4\fs20 \par It's just as well that Tim has youth on his side. He doesn't intend to narrow his horizons.'Home furniture is a big passion. I pick up old stuff and fix it up. It helps to experiment with different pieces. I like making old stuff look brand new and brand new stuff look old. I'm interested in chainsaw carving. It's an endless thing. I don't want to narrow it down to just one\u8230\'c9' He pauses, then laughs, 'big word, ready? Genre. I do want to focus mainly on the basses, though.'\par }\pard \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 {\f4\fs20 \par }\pard \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 {\f4\fs20 Leaving, before I've reached the knotted wood that will be an \par instrument soon enough he has the music turned up again and his head down shaving the paint from the old jazz bass.\par \par Mark Lewis, the owner of the '69 Holden Premier says Tim has endless potential, 'stick basses especially.' They were in the same grade one class. 'He's looked up stuff on the Internet on how to make drums. He might be having a go at a bongo. And he made a tank stand for our lizards from an old futon base. And a sick couch for the living room. He found it on someone's nature strip and used fence palings from the tip to fix it up.'\par \par Mark and Tim bought guitars and musical equipment together. 'That was about five or six years ago. Tim's pretty good now. We don't jam as often though, just stuff around. Tim's in two bands, Chapter 9 and Ten Penny Joke.' Aha. So all this time we've been listening to him playing. \par \par }\pard \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 {\f4\fs20 I can see him, still bent over the old jazz bass, as I reverse out of the driveway. Stripping the paint to the rhythm of his own music.\par }\pard \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 {\f4\fs20 \par }{\f4\fs20\cf3 As this is going to print Tim is in the process of sending a guitar to America, to the bass player from Nat King Cole's brother\emdash Frank Cole's\emdash  band. Tim now works in Hawthorn with string-instrument maker Benedict Puglisi.\par }}