{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\upr{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman;}{\f4\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020005000000000000}Times;}{\f12\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020205020603050602}New York;}}{\*\ud{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman;}{\f4\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020005000000000000}Times;}{\f12\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020205020603050602}New York;}}}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f12\lang1033\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\title fallingsound}{\author AppleCentre Melbourne CBD}{\operator Amber Carvan}{\creatim\yr2001\mo9\dy29\hr10\min6}{\revtim\yr2001\mo9\dy29\hr10\min6}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages3}{\nofwords1323}{\nofchars7544}{\*\company MUSU}{\nofcharsws9264}{\vern8243}}\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1080\margr1080 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\ftnrstpg\hyphhotz0\sprstsp\otblrul\brkfrm\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\sprstsm\truncex\nolead\nospaceforul\msmcap\lytprtmet\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace0\dgvspace0\dghorigin0\dgvorigin0\dghshow0\dgvshow0\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale125\bdrrlswsix\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 \f12\lang1033\cgrid {\f4\fs20 Falling Sound\par }\pard \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 {\f4\fs20 Kate Locke\par \par Towards a booming cave with strobe lights and glittering neon balls suspended from the ceiling. Bodies everywhere, guys with hats and sunglasses on, even in the dark, their t-shirts dripping with sweat; absurdly young girls wearing tops that looked like they were meant to be worn on their heads and not their midriff. Everyone seems trying desperately to be having a good time. Their smiles and laughter border on manic. They\rquote re almost like puppets. \par \par }\pard \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 {\f4\fs20 If the sound of the music was taken away and the lights turned up, how ridiculous might it seem to have all these young people shouting to each other in the quiet of the dirty overcrowded room, stamping their feet and swaying their bodies to no sound at all? There would only be the sounds of shuffling and shouting. Beauty would be marred by the view of sweat dripping off bodies, the girls with too much glitter on their faces and arms, the guys with their lips too loose from drinking or doing drugs or both, and hair flattened by the heat. \par }\pard \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 {\f4\fs20 \par }\pard \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 {\f4\fs20 But there\rquote s music, and darkness. Everyone seems delirious with the feeling of absolute freedom and fear, excitement and desire, energy and direction. The club is theirs for the night. They paid for it, so they own it. The security guards, bar staff, managers, they just provide the scenery. The people, the dancers, the drug takers, the drinkers are all friends in this one mighty place that is purely theirs for the night. And the fleetingness of it all makes it all the more desperate, so that a feeling of giddy rage perforates the crazy beauty of it all. \par }\pard \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 {\f4\fs20 \par }\pard \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 {\f4\fs20 Noise seeps upward like a dying scream. It aches through my body as a fever. I am wilting. The music finds its groove and pours itself through, coursing, snaking its voluptuous body until the banks wash away and I am pulled along with the tide.\par \par \lquote I love the sound.\rquote \par \par }{\b\f4\fs20 Childish Antics\par }{\f4\fs20 \par When I was eight, I made a wish. A kind of stupid childish wish that you make \lquote just in case\rquote , when you\rquote re lying in bed staring at the dark ceiling. \par \par It occurred to me that one of my parents might die. \lquote If I had to choose, which one would it be?\rquote  I lay there imagining what I would do. The pain would be more pronounced if my mother died before my father, I decided, since she was the one that made the best school lunches, tucked me in at night and was there when I fell over on the pavement. \par \par }\pard \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 {\f4\fs20 Later, unable to sleep, I went through every important choice I could think of. If I had to be allergic to one of my favourite foods, what would it be? Hot chips, definitely\emdash not chocolate. If I had to have a fight with a friend, who would it be? Definitely Tammy Carol\emdash she\rquote d forgive me. If I had an accident or a disease that affected something, what would it be? The worst thing would be to blindness or become a paraplegic. The least worst thing would be deafness.\par }\pard \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 {\b\f4\fs20 \par Night Muse}{\f4\fs20 \par \par I forgot this childish insomnia cure until I was twelve and my father died of a heart attack at forty-five. No one saw it coming. I cried at night, but felt a comfort at knowing that my mum, brothers and sisters were still there. \par \par A few months later, a regular doctor\rquote s check-up would establish that I had a slight sensory-neural hearing loss. After specific questioning, it emerged that my hearing would probably stay the same. I had noticed I had trouble hearing my friends on the phone, and I never heard my name called at the school assembly. But it was also a possibility that my hearing could deteriorate until I was profoundly deaf. Not great news for a twelve-year-old who\rquote s mostly normal at this stage.\par \par }\pard \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 {\b\f4\fs20 The Thick Sound of Silence\par }\pard \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 {\f4\fs20 \par }\pard \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 {\f4\fs20 A sound seeps towards me as I lie in the depths of sleep, wandering through a field of blackened cement towers that loom forbiddingly over me\emdash the sound comes again, warped, quiet, like the droning of a distant mechanical monster. I try to pull myself from sleep, but I am in too far. I walk more quickly and stumble through rubble and dirt, dodging falling bricks at sporadic intervals.\par }\pard \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 {\f4\fs20 \par I\rquote m turning, turning, trying to decipher the source of the sound. Until suddenly I realise with a certainty that even though it sounds distant, it is actually right beside me, only a couple of inches from my left ear. And then I am awake, realising I had been rolling over and over, twisting in the bed sheets. The alarm clock is playing Nova FM with an intensity so loud that it could have woken the entire apartment block. I know that because I can feel the vibrations pounding out of the speakers. With only my ears, I can barely hear a sound.\par }\pard \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 {\f4\fs20 \par }\pard \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 {\f4\fs20 I reach over and press the snooze button and then lie in bed listening to the silence. The wonderful, thick cocoon of beautiful stillness that surrounds me, wrapping me in its arms. I get up after a while and put in my hearing aids and switch them on. \par \par BOOM\par \par The birds are singing like maimed budgies outside my window, with high, deep trills of freedom; cars are zooming past outside; sirens are pouring their noise into the streets; people are shouting out to each other from windows high up. I can hear a radio somewhere in the distance. In another apartment a TV is playing. Church bells are pealing behind the block of units. \par }\pard \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 {\b\f4\fs20 \par }\pard \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 {\b\f4\fs20 My Insomniac Wishes Come True.}{\f4\fs20  \par \par I went to see an audiologist a week ago, and then an ENT surgeon, followed by an MRI, a CT and then a normal hearing test. It\rquote s getting worse, the sound. It\rquote s cotton wool. It\rquote s thickness. So thick you could cut it with a knife. The air is thick and slow. \par \par I am twenty-one and I am getting deafer by the minute. In a couple of years I may never hear another sound again. This is hard to deal with. But I try not to let it show. Hell, I can still hear Sub Bass Snarl and the Chemical Brothers. I can still hear the booming beats at The Globe or Club 77. Cars still sound the same. I can still hear my friends talking, although now I have to rely on hearing aids to understand what the fuck it is they\rquote re saying. Birds I can\rquote t hear so well. I can\rquote t hear the telephone ringing. \par }\pard \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 {\f4\fs20 \par }\pard \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 {\b\f4\fs20 The Memory of Sound\par }{\f4\fs20 \par I can still imagine what sounds must be like. If I know the phone is ringing, but can\rquote t hear it, I\rquote ll swear that I\rquote m hearing the sound. The memories of sounds surround me. Sound is not real anymore; it\rquote s all in my head. If I\rquote m concentrating hard, I can imagine I am hearing any sound that I have ever heard from memory. If I am walking I am sure I can hear my footsteps and my breathing, because I can feel it, and I know exactly what it sounds like. But I\rquote m not really hearing it. Does this mean I am living in a kind of weird world where the noises I think I am hearing are all in my head? How do I know I am not imagining everything and I am completely deaf already?\par \par }{\b\f4\fs20 Feeling the Sound\par }{\f4\fs20 \par I search out new sounds like a maniac. I want to hear everything possible so I can remember what they sound like when the noise ends, and only the vibrations exist. I want to be able to hear sounds; to love them; to hate them. To have the garbage truck annoy me in the morning. To have to ask flatmates to turn the music down. To listen to people in a pub. To be able to answer a phone and say \lquote NO! I don\rquote t want to participate in any goddamn survey, THANKYOU!\rquote . I want to be able to overhear someone whispering a secret. \par }\pard \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 {\f4\fs20 \par }\pard \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 {\f4\fs20 But I know that I\rquote ll just have to imagine it. To bring out the files from the library aisles of my memory. To bring out the noises I can remember and place them where appropriate so that I can pretend that I am hearing it all. I can still hear everything in my dreams. In my dreams I am not deaf and I hear every sound perfectly. Just because you are deaf doesn\rquote t mean that you can\rquote t hear. Sound, I realise now is much more than noise. It has physical attributes. Sound waves can move and push things; break glass; cause the air to shift and dilate. I wish I could capture sound in a jar or something or file them in a drawer.\par \par }\pard \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 {\f4\fs20 When I go to the club to listen to the music, or Big Day Out, or Homebake, I don\rquote t love the music purely for the noise. It is the feeling of having your heart beat in time to the sound and the beat, the feeling of having your hands vibrate with the changing treble and bass, the feeling of the air around you pumping with an unleashed energy. Noise is an organism that surrounds us and lives in us.\par }\pard \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 {\f4\fs20 \par }\pard \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 {\f4\fs20 I sit here in this caf\u233\'8e listening to the music and the clatter of voices. I can\rquote t understand what people are saying unless they face me and speak directly to me. I guess that over the past three and a half years\emdash without even realising it\emdash I\rquote ve learnt naturally to lip-read.\par }\pard \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 {\f4\fs20 \par }\pard \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 {\b\f4\fs20 Silence\par }{\f4\fs20 \par I\rquote m listening to the sounds of the city that surround me, alarms beeping brakes squealing children shrieking pigeons cooing people talking mobiles ringing wind blowing car horns blaring jack hammers chattering motor revving music pumping.\par \par }\pard \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 {\f4\fs20 But now, I choose to revel in silence. \par }\pard \li170\ri170\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin170\lin170\itap0 {\f4\fs20 \par Reaching up, I switch off my hearing aids and for a moment I feel the world differently. It\rquote s sudden. Sitting in the middle of the caf\u233\'8e, I watch the world as it becomes a muffled, slow-motion, silent movie. Amidst the Heated Boiling Burning city frothing crazily all around with noises, the silence captures me. Calm Serene Cool Silent Icy, I am floating.\par }}