{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f16\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f17\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\f19\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f20\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f21\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\qj\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \b\fs20\lang3081\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive 
Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\title Turning Blue All Over The Windows And The Floors}{\author ohs}{\operator ohs}{\creatim\yr2001\mo10\dy23\hr11\min6}{\revtim\yr2001\mo10\dy23\hr11\min6}{\version2}{\edmins1}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords0}{\nofchars0}
{\*\company ohs}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern113}}\paperw11907\paperh16840\margl1797\margr1797 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\formshade\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0\sectd \psz9\linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s1\qj\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \b\fs20\lang3081\cgrid {Turning Blue All Over The Windows And The Floors
\par }\pard\plain \qj\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {
\par \ldblquote But I don\rquote t care if you don\rquote t
\par And I don\rquote t feel if you don\rquote t
\par And I don\rquote t want if you don\rquote t
\par And I won\rquote t say it if you won\rquote t say it first\rdblquote 
\par -The Cure \lquote Let\rquote s Go To Bed\rquote 
\par 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {I love it all\'85the labored breathing obstructed by eager, moist-mouthed kisses, limbs shivering and jumping under tentative touch, and warm handed caressing of faces and arms. I love the way we don\rquote 
t speak when we know what is going to happen (again) or while it does happen. I love the sly looks just beforehand, and how we know we both want it but pretend we don\rquote 
t. I love the way neither of us wants to initiate it, and the final look that makes us leave everyone else. I love the forgetfulness and hunger, the softness and roughness, the restraint o
f audacity, the elements, the wonder and need and eagerness, and how we just don\rquote 
t know why but we keep ending up like this. I love the scrape of singlet over chest and back, the whisper of garments falling to the floor, buttons and elastic and zips. I lov
e the jangle of belt buckle, the catching and pulling of jewellery on threads, and the half-close-eyed anticipation where we try and make the other fall in love with us. I love the sliding stomachs pressed together and breathing in the essence of one anot
her, the smell of each other\rquote 
s skin and hair that can only be detected when naked. I love the sweet quiet breathing, almost gasping and the salty taste on lips kissed of sweat and sex. I love the curve of warm bodies and exposed skin, the goosebumps and dam
p thighs. I love the minutes, or maybe hours afterwards, lying silent and still, breathing into each other\rquote s mouths, and the half darkness or light, the way it always is at the end of it all. I love the \lquote all cats are gray\rquote 
-ness of us in the dark, both our bodies and hair tainted gothic black. I love the silent warmth and lax sleepiness mixed with being completely alert to the other\rquote 
s sounds and movements, so as not to miss anything. I love the creak of sweetly familiar bed and shock of cold burning through 
rough soles of feet. I love the bracing of bodies for imminent freezing nakedness, the shivering and dressing in silence, in guilt of pleasure, and waiting for the cue to do so. I love the spattered rain that starts when it\rquote s darkening, and when we
\rquote re dres
sed again the sky is black and water trickles down the window, streaking the world outside into a time-delay photograph. I wish for the finality of tying shoelaces, the clomping of boots down steep wooden stairs, the ache of love and the discovery of the 
o
utside world again. I long for walking in the dark and rain, just beginning to find our voices once more. We eat somewhere, the food tasting strangely strong, no matter what it is, because our tongues have been trained to the taste of each other. The Satu
rday night noises reach ears that still tingle from being bitten and kissed, our arms and stomachs and necks still vibrate from tongues and fingers and palms. We don\rquote t speak about it. We both think about the next time we\rquote 
ll melt into each other, the next time we find it hard to breathe, the next time we\rquote ll walk outside like this, our throats growing cold in the crisp rain-dense air. And we\rquote ll walk nowhere together, my skirt dragging in the puddles.
\par }}